CH 6 Q1 | 릴리가 한밤중에 잠에서 깬 뒤 부엌으로 내려간 이유는?
정답: 배가 고파서
evidence: [RED: I wake up sweating. Sheets twisted, pillow damp, bed creaking. My stomach growls, and I realize I’m desperately hungry for midnight kimchi, so I untangle my blankets and slip out of bed.] As I tiptoe across the room, past my sister, I beg the noisy floorboards to keep quiet.

CH 6 Q2 | What has changed in front of the basement door?
정답: The boxes have been pushed aside.
evidence: And then I stop. [RED: The boxes that were pressed up against the basement door have been shoved aside, leaving a clear path.] I know Mom wanted to move the boxes, but I didn’t think she cared enough to upset Halmoni.

CH 6 Q3 | 지하실에 내려간 릴리가 알게 된 사실은?
정답: 물에 잠긴 적이 없이 바싹 말라 있었다
evidence: Now: nothing. [RED: Nothing at all, not even water—even though Halmoni said the basement had flooded. I kneel on the floor and run my hand over the carpet. It’s bone dry.] Shouldn’t it be damp?

CH 6 Q4 | 릴리가 욕실에서 본 검은 짐승의 정체는?
정답: 토하고 있는 할머니
evidence: It growls and moves like all its bones are broken. [RED: My heart freezes over, but then the shadows slip away— And it’s not a beast at all. It’s Halmoni. And something’s wrong.]

CH 7 Q1 | 할머니가 자기 병을 뭐라고 불렀나요?
정답: 작은 딱정벌레
evidence: “Are you—are you sick?” [RED: “Oh, yes, Lily. Only a little bit. How do you call it? A little beetle?” Sometimes I think she mixes up words on purpose, to make us laugh—to distract us. “A bug?” I clarify.] She nods.

CH 7 Q2 | 할머니의 평소 잠 습관으로 맞는 것은?
정답: 여덟 시 반에 자서 열두 시간을 잔다
evidence: Halmoni is so glamorous, and this is so…gross. [RED: Halmoni has always been the queen of sleep. She goes to bed at eight-thirty, sets her hair in curlers and wraps it in a head scarf, wears a face mask, and sleeps for twelve hours.] Nothing gets in the way of beauty sleep.

CH 7 Q3 | 아픈 할머니를 본 릴리의 행동은?
정답: 몸이 굳어 다가가지 못했다
evidence: Except, I guess, this. [RED: A good granddaughter would help her. A good girl would bring her crackers and water and hold her hair. But for some reason, I don’t move. As much as I try, I can’t force my legs to work, can’t make my hand push the door open.] I am not a good granddaughter.

CH 7 Q4 | What does Halmoni promise to tell Lily at the end of the chapter?
정답: What she stole
evidence: I was thinking about…the tiger.” [RED: She looks at me for three long heartbeats, then holds out her hand. “Come lie with me,” she says. “I tell you now. I tell you what I stole.”]

CH 8 Q1 | 할머니 침대 옆 탁자에 새로 놓여 있던 것은?
정답: 작은 주황색 약통들
evidence: In the dark, I scan the room. [RED: On her nightstand, as usual: framed photos of me, Mom, Sam. Also on her nightstand, new: a row of tiny orange pill bottles. A whole family of them.] Before I can ask about them, she says, “I stole stories.”

CH 8 Q2 | According to Halmoni’s story, what are the stars made of?
정답: Stories
evidence: I nudge closer to her, heart humming at those magic words. [RED: “Those stories come from a time when the night is black. Only darkness. And in the darkness, a princess lives in a castle in the sky. The princess very lonely, so she whisper stories to the night. And those stories become stars.”] When Halmoni told us to reach up and grab a story from the sky, I always thought it was just a fun game.

CH 8 Q3 | 할머니가 별을 훔치기로 마음먹은 이유는?
정답: 슬프고 나쁜 이야기를 없애고 싶어서
evidence: They were about clever girls and loving families and warrior princesses who saved the day. [RED: “I hear my halmoni cry when she tell me sad stories, our Korean history,” she says. “I see my neighbors get scare. My friends get angry. And I think: Why do we have to hear bad stories? Isn’t it better if bad stories just go ’way?”] I swallow.

CH 8 Q4 | What did Halmoni do so the tigers could not follow her?
정답: She walled up the cave with rocks.
evidence: Then I tiptoe away from cave, so soft, hush-hush. [RED: Before I leave, I think, I be extra safe. I make sure they don’t follow. So I take rocks from the forest, one by one, and stack them at the mouth of the cave, until they make a wall. Big, heavy wall. Until the tigers trapped inside.”] I shudder, imagining the tigers clawing on the other side.

CH 8 Q5 | 할머니가 말한 가장 용감한 일은?
정답: 믿는 것
evidence: “How did you know you’d be okay?” [RED: “I don’t. But I believe in me. When you believe, that is you being brave. Sometime, believing is the bravest thing of all.”] “So everything turned out fine?”

CH 9 Q1 | 아침에 엄마가 옷을 갖춰 입고 있던 이유는?
정답: 면접이 있어서
evidence: And I guess a nod is good enough for Mom, because she doesn’t push it. [RED: She plunks her mug on the coffee table as she stands—and when she does, I notice she’s dressed nicely, in a button-down shirt and work pants. “Are you hungry?” she asks. “No,” I say. “What are you wearing?” “I’ve got a job interview this morning,” she explains, as she clatters around the kitchen.] We’ve only been here for one night.

CH 9 Q2 | 캘리포니아에서 엄마가 하던 일은?
정답: 회계사
evidence: We’ve only been here for one night. [RED: Most moms would want to settle in and unpack, but of course my mom’s already got an interview lined up. She worked as an accountant back in California, and she worked a lot.] “But I have time to make you something,” Mom continues.

CH 9 Q3 | Why did Halmoni first come to the United States?
정답: To find her mother
evidence: I know she lived alone with her own halmoni. [RED: I know her mom moved to the States when she was very little. Halmoni tried to find her when she moved out here herself—when I was just a baby—but I don’t think she ever did.]” “I meant more like…” Except how do I even explain this?

CH 9 Q4 | 엄마가 릴리에게 제안한 것은?
정답: 동네 아이들과 놀 자리를 만들어 주겠다
evidence: Mom takes a breath and plasters a smile on her face. [RED: “Anyway, you should meet some kids in the neighborhood. I have some high school friends with kids your age. I can set up a playdate.”] Mom does this when she wants to change the subject—just abruptly switches topics and acts like we were talking about it the whole time.

CH 9 Q5 | 어릴 적 릴리가 도서관에 들어가려 하지 않은 이유는?
정답: 헨젤과 그레텔의 과자집처럼 보여서
evidence: The door and window frames were painted in bright, colorful patterns. [RED: But I told her: It looks like the gingerbread house from “Hansel and Gretel.”] I guess she’s forgotten about that.

CH 9 Q6 | What does Lily do with the tea Mom makes for her?
정답: She pours it down the sink.
evidence: It’s not like she’s paying attention. [RED: I get up to pour the tea down the sink, and the swirl of brown water thrills me. It feels reckless and wasteful, but in a good way.] I drop the mug in after it—only with too much force.

CH 10 Q1 | 도서관에 들어선 릴리에게 사서 조가 처음 물은 것은?
정답: 도서관 카드가 있느냐
evidence: It’s a library. [RED: “You have a card?” he asks. I’m not sure what he means at first. “Oh, right. A library card. Um…no.”] I step up to the desk, even though he kind of scares me.

CH 10 Q2 | How does Joe figure out who Lily is?
정답: She is Ae-Cha’s granddaughter.
evidence: I just moved in with her.” [RED: His eyebrow quirks up, and he nods once, in what might be approval. He’s still frowning, but less so. “You’re Ae-Cha’s granddaughter,” he confirms. “I’ll put your card under her account.”] I thank him as he types my information on his clacky keyboard.

CH 10 Q3 | 조가 할머니에 대해 한 말은?
정답: 신세를 진 적이 있다
evidence: I thank him as he types my information on his clacky keyboard. [RED: “Good woman,” he says after a few moments. “Shock to this town’s system when she moved here, that’s for sure. But I owe her. And Joan—your mother?—followed her everywhere.”] “Oh,” I say.

CH 10 Q4 | What does Jensen tutor?
정답: Middle school language arts
evidence: I refocus on Jensen, who keeps talking. [RED: “I tutor for middle school language arts. So if you’re ever looking for help, let me know.”] My voice scratches when I speak, like it always does when I talk to strangers.

CH 10 Q5 | 직원 휴게실 벽에 붙어 있던 포스터의 문구는?
정답: HANG IN THERE
evidence: Inside I see a mini-refrigerator, a cupboard, two chairs, and the back door of the library. [RED: On the wall by the door is a faded poster of a cat hanging from a tree, with the words HANG IN THERE written in white bubble letters. I don’t know who put that up, but I’m pretty sure it wasn’t Joe.] “This is the staff room,” Jensen explains, “but I always tell my tutees they can come back here.

CH 10 Q6 | 젠슨이 릴리에게 건넨 초콜릿 컵케이크를 만든 사람은?
정답: 조
evidence: But I shake away my panic and thank her as I accept the cupcake. [RED: Jensen leans in and lowers her voice. “I’ll let you in on a secret: Joe made it.”] I raise my eyebrows, and she laughs.

CH 10 Q7 | 릴리의 호랑이 이야기를 들은 젠슨이 떠올린 서양 이야기는?
정답: 빨간 모자
evidence: And then he chases them and—” [RED: “That sounds like ‘Little Red Riding Hood’!” Jensen interrupts. “No, that’s a wolf,” I say. “And this story is from Korea.”] She runs her finger along the book spines, absentmindedly.

CH 10 Q8 | What is the name of the only Asian restaurant in town?
정답: Dragon Thyme
evidence: “To be honest, this town is pretty white, so you’re not going to find much about other cultures. [RED: Like, sometimes I pick up waitressing shifts at the only Asian restaurant in town—you know, Dragon Thyme? And I know, it’s a pretty cheesy name, and there’s no thyme in Asian food, but that’s just the town we live in]….” She clears her throat.
