CH 11 Q1 | 릴리와 부딪친 남자아이의 차림새로 맞는 것은?
정답: 옛날식 신문팔이 모자를 썼다
evidence: It’s a boy. [RED: A short white boy, wearing a bright orange shirt, black jeans, and an old-fashioned newsboy hat over shaggy brown hair.] “Sorry!”

CH 11 Q2 | When does Jensen tutor Ricky?
정답: Tuesdays and Thursdays
evidence: “Lily just moved in with her grandmother, in the house across the street from here.” [RED: Gesturing to Ricky, Jensen adds, “Lily, this is Ricky, one of my summer tutees. We meet every Tuesday and Thursday.”] She turns directly to Ricky and says, “And the library isn’t sad.

CH 11 Q3 | 리키가 도서관에서 읽고 있는 것은?
정답: 초창기 슈퍼맨 만화
evidence: “No, I’m just looking for books.” [RED: His eyes go wide, and he looks at the shelves of comics. “Do you like comics, too? I love them. I’m reading through the original Supermans right now. Well, the issues that Joe has here, at least.] I know a lot of people think Superman’s not cool.

CH 11 Q4 | 리키가 털어놓은 집안 이야기는?
정답: 증조할아버지가 호랑이 사냥꾼이었다
evidence: “You can’t trust a tiger,” he repeats, like I’ve said something fascinating and he’s trying to commit it to memory. [RED: “I like that. My great-grandpa was a tiger hunter. But that’s actually really bad, because tigers are endangered and that’s illegal now, so my dad doesn’t want me to tell people about that.”] He pauses.

CH 12 Q1 | 집에 혼자 남은 릴리가 계속 먹은 간식은?
정답: 피넛버터 컵
evidence: The next afternoon, Mom’s at another interview, and Halmoni naps through lunch—which is unusual, because even though Halmoni loves to sleep, she loves eating even more. [RED: Sam’s upstairs on her computer, and I have nothing to do but snack on peanut butter cups, pace, and think about the tiger.] Here’s what I know:

CH 12 Q2 | What is the dried herb Halmoni tells Lily to keep in her pocket?
정답: Mugwort
evidence: “What is it?” [RED: “This mugwort,” she explains. “This my medicine to eat, but you don’t eat. You keep in you pockets, and it give you protection.”] I thank her and slip the dried herb into my pocket.

CH 12 Q3 | 할머니가 목에서 풀어 릴리에게 걸어 준 것은?
정답: 진주 펜던트 목걸이
evidence: I thank her and slip the dried herb into my pocket. [RED: “And this…” She hesitates before reaching behind her neck and unlatching the necklace. The silver chain with the pearl pendant—her special necklace, the one she wears every day, the one she rubs between her fingers when she’s trying to find the right English words. “This help, too. You wear for protection, and it keep you safe.”] My pulse beats in every limb as she fastens it around my neck.

CH 12 Q4 | Why does Sam refuse to drive?
정답: She thinks of Dad’s car accident.
evidence: Mom keeps bugging Sam to practice. [RED: But, of course, she won’t. Sam tried two lessons with her driving instructor and refused to get behind the wheel after that. Nothing bad happened, but she won’t do it because of Dad’s car accident.] Halmoni presses her palm against Sam’s cheek.

CH 12 Q5 | 마트에 가기 전 할머니가 한 일은?
정답: 좋은 옷으로 갈아입었다
evidence: “No. I’ll come,” she says. [RED: Halmoni claps. “Good girls! I go change into fancy clothes.” Sam frowns. “Why?” “Grocery,” Halmoni answers before disappearing into her room.] Sam shakes her head, but a tiny smiles tugs at her lips.

CH 12 Q6 | 할머니가 삼십 분 안에 나와야 한다고 한 이유는?
정답: 곧 비가 온다고 해서
evidence: Sam raises an eyebrow when she sees the protection category, but she doesn’t say anything. [RED: “We have to leave here in half hour, because rain coming soon,” Halmoni says. Sam frowns. “It’s not gonna rain today. The weather app says there’s a zero percent chance.”] Halmoni just pats Sam’s head.

CH 12 Q7 | What does the woman with red curly hair say Halmoni did for her?
정답: She cured her asthma.
evidence: “These my little ones.” [RED: “Your grandmother is the greatest,” the woman gushes to Sam and me. “She cured my asthma with her plants.”] Sam takes a very small step back.

CH 12 Q8 | What does Lily hide behind while she eavesdrops?
정답: A display of Lucky Charms boxes
evidence: I tiptoe down the aisle until I reach the end. [RED: There’s a big BUY TWO, GET ONE FREE! display of Lucky Charms—about a hundred stacked cereal boxes—and I use it as a spy shield.] I peek out around the side.

CH 12 Q9 | 릴리가 엿들은 리키 아빠의 말은?
정답: 그만 좀 떠들어라
evidence: With the laser only, so it’s not like he could actually feel it, and then—” [RED: “Will you just shut up?” The words echo through me. I feel the horribleness of them in my chest, squeezing hard.] Sam tugs at my shirtsleeve.

CH 12 Q10 | 할머니가 리키와 그 아버지에게 남긴 말은?
정답: 힘들 때일수록 서로 붙어 있으라
evidence: Now is not the time for one of Halmoni’s life lessons. Turning back to his dad, Halmoni says, [RED: “And when Ricky have struggle, you help him. We always remember to help each other. You both good boys, and you have hard times. I know that. But when you have hard times, you come together, not apart. Okay?”] Halmoni glows with both fierceness and kindness.

CH 13 Q1 | 할머니가 갑자기 차를 꺾은 이유는?
정답: 길 한가운데 호랑이가 서 있어서
evidence: She stares straight ahead, shaking her head slightly. [RED: I follow her gaze—and I see the tiger. It stands right in front of us, eyes locked on Halmoni’s. And the weirdest thing—it’s like it’s not raining around the tiger.] The tiger isn’t getting wet, as if there’s a protective bubble around it, where the rain refuses to fall.

CH 13 Q2 | What is strange about the tiger standing in the road?
정답: The rain does not fall on it.
evidence: And the weirdest thing—it’s like it’s not raining around the tiger. [RED: The tiger isn’t getting wet, as if there’s a protective bubble around it, where the rain refuses to fall.] I turn to Halmoni, and I can tell she sees it, too.

CH 13 Q3 | 차를 세운 뒤 할머니가 한 일은?
정답: 길가로 나가 토했다
evidence: In the rearview mirror, Halmoni’s whole face puckers like a sour plum seed. [RED: Then Halmoni’s in motion, and we can’t stop her. She opens her door and hobbles over to the side of the road, clutching her stomach, hunched. She drops to her knees, and her body shakes as she coughs.] Sam and I rush out of the car, and I spin around, looking for the tiger, but it’s gone.

CH 13 Q4 | 할머니가 두 손녀에게 누구를 부르라고 했나요?
정답: 엄마
evidence: And Sam stares back, eyes wide, hand shaking. [RED: “Mom,” Halmoni gasps. “Call you mom.”] Sam dials, and ten minutes later, Mom’s tires screech against the road behind us.

CH 13 Q5 | 별에게 어떻게 해야 하냐고 물은 릴리가 들은 답은?
정답: 고쳐라
evidence: The stars seem to dance as we drive past, and even though they are light-lifetimes away, I can almost hear them, singing their stories. [RED: What do I do? I ask again. They wink at me. Fix it.]

CH 14 Q1 | 한밤중에 나타난 호랑이에 대해 릴리가 놀란 점은?
정답: 말을 하고 암컷이었다
evidence: The giant shadow steps forward, into the starlight, and it becomes the tiger—big as a car, filling the whole hallway. [RED: “You talk,” I whisper. And then, without meaning to, I add, “And you’re a girl.” I clamp my lips shut, because what a ridiculous thing to say.] She scoffs.

CH 14 Q2 | What does the tiger say she came for?
정답: The stars Halmoni stole
evidence: She makes a sound that’s halfway between a purr and a growl. [RED: “Your halmoni stole the stars, and I am here to collect them. That is all. Will you help me, little one?”] My mouth is so dry, I can barely form the word, but I manage.

CH 14 Q3 | 호랑이가 말한, 이야기를 가두어 두면 생기는 일은?
정답: 마법이 상해 독이 된다
evidence: The tiger scared her. But the big cat continues, [RED: “Story magic is powerful, powerful enough to change someone. And when a story is locked away, its magic only grows. Sometimes it grows sour. The magic becomes a kind of poison. Do you understand?”] I refuse to respond.

CH 14 Q4 | 호랑이가 내놓은 거래의 내용은?
정답: 별을 돌려주면 할머니가 낫는다
evidence: “You’re lying,” I say, but my voice cracks. [RED: “I’m offering a deal. You help me find the stories, I’ll return them to their place in the sky, and you never have to think about them again. I get my stars back, and we help your halmoni. You don’t even have to hear the stories. Everybody wins.”] The tiger shifts her weight, paw to paw, and her fur glistens in the starlight.

CH 14 Q5 | Why does the tiger leave without a deal?
정답: Lily is too afraid to answer in time.
evidence: I’m so afraid of saying the wrong answer that I don’t say anything at all. [RED: For a few stretched-out moments, the tiger waits. Then she shakes her head. Already she’s fading into shadow. “I was hoping you’d surprise me.”] I think of Halmoni tonight, and how helpless I felt, and how I need to fix this.

CH 15 Q1 | 릴리가 엿들은 대화에서 엄마가 거듭 부탁한 것은?
정답: 다른 치료를 받아 보라
evidence: Hat help, too.” [RED: “Mom! I don’t need a hat. I need you.” Mom’s voice breaks. When she speaks again, her voice is quiet. “Please just try the other treatments. Don’t give up.”] Treatments.

CH 15 Q2 | 할머니가 화를 내며 한 말은?
정답: 지금 어떻게 지낼지만은 내가 정하겠다
evidence: The softness in Halmoni’s words evaporates. [RED: “You think I just give up? No! I don’t want to go. I don’t want to leave you. I am not ready. But I don’t get to decide. The only thing I decide is how I be right now. So you don’t take that away from me.”] I’ve never heard Halmoni sound so angry.

CH 15 Q3 | What surprises Lily most while she listens at the stairs?
정답: Mom is crying.
evidence: There’s a scary side of her, like there’s a tiger hiding just below her skin, straining to get out. [RED: I hear another strange sound, and it’s so out of place that I don’t recognize it at first. Until I realize: Mom’s crying. But Mom never cries.] “Joanie,” Halmoni says quietly.

CH 15 Q4 | 엄마가 알려 준 할머니의 병은?
정답: 뇌암
evidence: Happy sunlight spills through the windows, like the weather is mocking me. [RED: Mom says, “Halmoni has brain cancer.”] For a few seconds, my insides go ice-numb.

CH 15 Q5 | 엄마가 병의 증상으로 들지 않은 것은?
정답: 기억상실
evidence: I try to say it out loud—brain cancer—but I can’t. [RED: Mom continues. “That’s what’s causing the symptoms you might have seen: the nausea, the paranoia, and all the—Well, sometimes with this type of illness, patients can have, uh, hallucinations.”] “Hallucinations?”
