CH 16 Q1 | 호랑이 이야기를 꺼낸 릴리에게 샘이 한 말은?
정답: 정신적 스트레스 반응이다
evidence: Maybe she thought she was the only one, and now she’s relieved. [RED: But then she says, “You need to get it together. This is some kind of mental stress reaction, or something, because what you’re saying is impossible.”] “Things are only impossible if you believe they’re impossible.

CH 16 Q2 | What idea does Joe say was a good one?
정답: A bake sale
evidence: For a second, I think he discovered my tiger plan, but of course that’s impossible. [RED: His mustache twitches. “Jensen said you suggested a bake sale. Not sure how much money that would actually raise, but it does seem like a good way to get the community engaged.”] “Oh,” I repeat.

CH 16 Q3 | 이날 리키가 쓰고 있던 모자는?
정답: BEANS라고 적힌 비니
evidence: Ricky looks up and grins. [RED: Today he’s wearing a beanie that says BEANS, pulled down to his eyebrows.] And if he feels awkward after the grocery-store incident, he doesn’t show it.

CH 16 Q4 | 리키가 릴리의 이름을 뭐라고 잘못 불렀나요?
정답: Lizzie
evidence: Maybe that’s his superpower—the unpleasant, uncomfortable things don’t bother him. [RED: “Lizzie!” he shouts. It takes me a second to realize he’s talking to me, and Jensen smiles apologetically. “It’s Lily,” she corrects.] “Hi, Lily, how are you?”

CH 16 Q5 | Why does Lily ask Jensen for a pudding?
정답: She wants a moment alone with Ricky.
evidence: “Jensen, can I have a pudding, too?” [RED: She blinks. It’s rude, I know, but I need a second alone with Ricky.] Jensen covers her surprise with a smile and stands up.

CH 16 Q6 | 리키가 되고 싶다고 말한 직업은?
정답: 심리학자
evidence: “The tutoring isn’t because I’m stupid,” Ricky says as soon as Jensen leaves. “It’s just because [RED: I don’t have a word brain. That’s why. Or a numbers one, I guess. But I’m going to be a psychologist. I have a very intuitive understanding of the human psyche,” he says, as if he’s reciting something he read online.] “I’m very good at reading people.”

CH 16 Q7 | 리키가 만화책을 펼쳐 보이며 낸 제안은?
정답: 호랑이 덫을 만들자
evidence: I lean closer to read the title: The Adventures of Superman: Doom Trap! [RED: Ricky grins. “We could make a trap. Like a pit to catch tigers in. It’ll be so cool, see?” He opens the comic to a dog-eared page and shows me the drawing of Superman, trapped in a giant metal box and a web of red laser beams.] “I don’t think I can do something like that.

CH 16 Q8 | What problem does Lily point out about the comic book trap?
정답: Superman breaks out of it.
evidence: He opens the comic to a dog-eared page and shows me the drawing of Superman, trapped in a giant metal box and a web of red laser beams. [RED: “I don’t think I can do something like that. And also…” I stare at the illustration. “Isn’t Superman the good guy? Doesn’t he break out of that trap?”] Ricky frowns, and now he’s the one who looks disappointed.

CH 17 Q1 | 젠슨이 샘을 알아본 이유는?
정답: 같은 초등학교에 다녀서
evidence: Sam’s eyes widen, and Jensen grins. [RED: “Not to be creepy or anything. You just looked familiar to me. You went to Sun Elementary, right? Like, ages ago?”] Sam pauses.

CH 17 Q2 | How does Sam act when she meets Jensen?
정답: She stammers.
evidence: That’s the problem with sticky people. [RED: “H-hey,” Sam says to Jensen, stammering a little bit. “I’m, uh, Sam.” She’s caught off guard by Jensen’s niceness or something.] But then she turns back to me, eyes narrowing.

CH 17 Q3 | 젠슨이 샘에게 함께 하자고 권한 일은?
정답: 도서관 모금 행사
evidence: Jensen toys with her curls. [RED: “You know, we’re doing a bake sale to raise money for the library. It was Lily’s idea, actually. And you’re welcome to help, if you’re interested. I can give you my number and we can coordinate.”] “Yeah, I…okay.

CH 17 Q4 | 리키가 쪽지를 건네며 큰 소리로 한 말은?
정답: 비밀 계획을 위해서
evidence: Ricky says. [RED: He holds out the scrap of paper and drops it into my palm. He lowers his voice to a loud whisper. “For later. You know. For the secret plan.”] Jensen looks surprised.

CH 17 Q5 | 샘이 화가 난 진짜 이유는?
정답: 릴리가 말없이 나가 자기만 엄마와 남겨져서
evidence: She stares at me. [RED: “Seriously? That’s what you’re upset about? You ran out in the middle of a conversation and left me with Mom, who’s already super stressed.”] “Sorry,” I murmur, and I mean it.

CH 18 Q1 | 리키가 스스로에게 붙인 이름은?
정답: Tiger Trapmaster
evidence: “Whoa,” I say as he steps through the front door. [RED: He lifts his top hat in greeting. “Tiger Trapmaster, at your service.”] I blink.

CH 18 Q2 | What does Ricky bring to build the trap?
정답: A huge coil of rope
evidence: Ricky arrives on his bike a few hours later, after Mom takes Halmoni to a follow-up doctor’s appointment. Sam’s upstairs, so it’s just me in the living room, which is probably good, because [RED: he’s got about a thousand yards of rope wrapped around his waist and is wearing head-to-toe camouflage—including a camo-patterned top hat.] “Whoa,” I say as he steps through the front door.

CH 18 Q3 | 덫을 지하실에 만들자며 릴리가 리키에게 댄 이유는?
정답: 비를 맞으면 안 되니까
evidence: “But…it’s not, though.” [RED: “I don’t want it to get rained on,” I say. I can’t tell him the real reason—the tiger appeared in the house.] She thinks the stolen star stories are somewhere in here.

CH 18 Q4 | 샘이 두 사람에게 한 말은?
정답: 마음대로 하되 자기는 빼 달라
evidence: Sisters…keep each other’s secrets.” [RED: We stare each other down, until finally, she shakes her head. “Fine. Do whatever. Just leave me out of it.”] “Oh.”

CH 18 Q5 | What does Ricky say about hats and his mom?
정답: They used to buy hats together.
evidence: We take a few more steps, and he keeps talking. [RED: “My mom and I used to buy hats together. That was kind of our thing. You need a good hat for every occasion, because a special hat can make you feel special. It’s the same reason superheroes wear capes.”] I nod along, but my mind snags on the used to.

CH 18 Q6 | 떨어뜨린 상자 안에 들어 있던 것은?
정답: 뽁뽁이에 싸인 냄비와 팬
evidence: Ricky leans over to open the box, and I check inside. [RED: Beneath a layer of Bubble Wrap is a pile of pots and pans. Everything looks intact.] The clatter must have been the pans banging against each other.

CH 18 Q7 | 가장 큰 냄비 안에서 나온 것은?
정답: 유리 항아리 세 개
evidence: I rearrange the cookware inside the box—but inside the biggest pot, something catches my eye. [RED: I reach in and pull out three wads of Bubble Wrap. The objects inside glint beneath the plastic, flashing in the light. “Whoa.” Ricky sucks in a breath as he leans over my shoulder. “We. Found. Treasure.” Only it isn’t treasure. It’s…jars.]

CH 19 Q1 | How many jars do they find?
정답: Three
evidence: “Star jars,” I breathe. [RED: I peel the Bubble Wrap off one of them, and the jar inside is small and round, made of dark blue glass, with a silver cork stuffed in its mouth. Quickly I unwrap the others, checking for cracks, but they’re okay, too. One of them is tall and thin, made of clear glass with a black cork. The other is dark green and square shaped.] Ricky takes a step closer.

CH 19 Q2 | 리키의 어떤 말이 릴리를 발끈하게 했나요?
정답: 자기를 슈퍼맨을 가둔 렉스 루서에 빗댄 것 같아서
evidence: “So, what would you do after you trapped the tiger?” [RED: And then, like he’s afraid I won’t answer, he adds, “In Superman: Doom Trap!, Lex Luthor wants to torture him to reveal the secrets of Krypton and also the universe—” “It’s not like that,” I interrupt, because that kind of makes me sound like the bad guy.] “This is real life.

CH 19 Q3 | 리키가 여름 과외를 받는 이유는?
정답: 국어 과목에 낙제해서
evidence: “Yeah, that’s true,” he says, sitting on the box next to me. “[RED: I failed language arts last year.]” “Oh,” I say.

CH 19 Q4 | What does Lily finally tell Ricky about her halmoni?
정답: She is sick.
evidence: And secrets are exhausting. [RED: The truth is, I want to tell the truth. “My halmoni is sick,” I tell him. When he looks confused, I clarify: “My grandma.”] He blows air from his lips.

CH 19 Q5 | 리키가 덫에 꼭 필요하다고 한 것은?
정답: 생고기 미끼
evidence: “Wait, what?” [RED: “According to the internet, the most important part of the tiger trap is the bait. Most tiger hunters used raw meat, like beef or—”] “Well, it’s hypothetical, so…we won’t do that,” I say.

CH 19 Q6 | 릴리가 미끼로 쓰기로 정한 것은?
정답: 별 항아리
evidence: But even under the bed, they seem to glow. [RED: Raw meat won’t work, because magical tigers play by different rules. But looking at these jars, I realize: I’ve found my bait.]

CH 20 Q1 | 샘이 릴리에게 해 준 것은?
정답: 머리를 새로 땋아 주었다
evidence: And I guess I have to wait a few hours anyway. [RED: When I give up and sit in front of the mirror, Sam kneels behind me. She unravels my braids, twisting the strands, weaving them together in a new way.] As she works, my jitteriness fades, replaced by this quieter, deeper wanting.

CH 20 Q2 | Why does Sam say Lily should learn to do her hair?
정답: Because Lily has a crush
evidence: Apparently my embarrassment puts her in a good mood. [RED: Then her eyes soften a little, and she points to the floor in front of the mirror. “Sit down. If you have a crush, you should learn how to do your hair.”] “I’m fine the way I am,” I say.

CH 20 Q3 | 새로 땋은 머리를 하고 거울을 본 릴리의 느낌은?
정답: 전사 같은 공주 같다
evidence: Instead of two braids framing my face, my hair is twisted into a braided crown, with wispy strands hanging around my ears. [RED: With my new hair and Halmoni’s pendant around my neck, I look like a princess. Or more—a warrior-princess.] I’m not used to seeing myself like this.

CH 20 Q4 | 샘이 호랑이 이야기의 결말을 슬프다고 본 이유는?
정답: 자매가 하늘 양 끝에 떨어져 만나지 못해서
evidence: A sharp edge that wasn’t there before. [RED: “The sisters end up on opposite ends of the sky, and they can’t even talk to one another. They see each other every day, but only to wave hello and goodbye. They’re alone.”] I pull my knees into my chest.

CH 20 Q5 | 샘이 말한 옛이야기의 목적은?
정답: 아이들을 겁주어 가르치려는 것
evidence: But now I’m not so sure. [RED: “The whole point is that it’s a sad story, Lily. All those old fairy tales are meant to scare kids. It’s a lesson. You know: don’t open the door for strangers. And: run from danger.”] Silence swells in the room, filling every crack in the creaky wood.

CH 20 Q6 | What does Sam finally admit about facing a tiger?
정답: She isn’t sure what the brave thing is.
evidence: She just escapes them. But a few minutes later, she says, [RED: “If it were me in the story, I don’t know. I don’t know if I’d run. I’d want to do the brave thing. It’s just, in that scenario, I’m not really sure what the brave thing is.”]
