CH 21 Q1 | 릴리가 한밤중에 지하실로 들고 내려간 것은?
정답: 초록색 네모난 항아리
evidence: [RED: Carefully, I pull the square green star jar out from under my bed. Sam is asleep. The whole house is asleep. And I am ready.] As quietly as possible, I slide open the drawer where I’ve hidden Halmoni’s mugwort.

CH 21 Q2 | What does the tiger say about Lily’s trap?
정답: She is not trapped, only testing Lily.
evidence: Now that you are trapped, I demand that you help her.” [RED: “Interesting. I wouldn’t have considered you the type. Unfortunately for you, I am not trapped. I am merely…testing you.”] She picks a dried herb from her sharp teeth.

CH 21 Q3 | 릴리 주머니에 있던 쑥은 어떻게 되었나요?
정답: 호랑이가 먹어 버렸다
evidence: I am merely…testing you.” [RED: She picks a dried herb from her sharp teeth. “Nice mugwort, by the way.” I feel for the mugwort in my pocket, but it’s gone]—and in a flash of orange and black, the tiger disappears, too. My trap is empty.

CH 21 Q4 | 호랑이가 새로 내놓은 거래의 조건은?
정답: 이야기를 들려줄 테니 들어야 한다는 것
evidence: “What’s your offer?” [RED: “You return the stories, your halmoni feels better. But here’s the fun part: in order to return the stories to the sky, I must tell them.” She flashes her teeth. “And stories are always better with an audience.”] I take a deep breath.

CH 21 Q5 | What does Lily do at the end of the chapter?
정답: She opens the jar.
evidence: Do you accept?” [RED: I grip the jar tighter as I brace myself. “Yes.” Her sharp teeth glow. And I open the jar.]

CH 22 Q1 | What could the girl of two worlds do?
정답: Shift between tiger and human
evidence: Then she begins. Long, long ago, when man walked like tiger, when nights were dark as ink, long before the sun and the moon and even the stars—[RED: there was a girl born of two worlds. She had two sets of skin and she could shift as she pleased: tiger to human, human to tiger.] She loved her magic, and she loved both worlds equally.

CH 22 Q2 | 호랑이 소녀가 하늘님에게 부탁한 것은?
정답: 딸의 호랑이 마법을 없애 달라
evidence: So the tiger-girl asked her human mother to protect the baby, and left to climb the tallest mountain, up and up, until she reached the sky god. [RED: I have never once complained, she told him, but I am doing this for my daughter. I am asking you to spare her. Take away her magic. Turn us both human and lock our tiger side away.] The sky god was not pleased.

CH 22 Q3 | 하늘님이 처음 내건 조건은?
정답: 아기를 백 일 동안 동굴에 두고 쑥만 먹여라
evidence: I will grant your wish. I can take away your magic, and your baby’s, but first…hmm…[RED: your baby must live alone in a cave for one hundred days, without the sun. Oh, and she can only eat mugwort.] The tiger-girl was horrified.

CH 22 Q4 | 결국 호랑이 소녀가 치른 대가는?
정답: 하늘 궁전에 올라가 하늘님의 마법을 배웠다
evidence: But one day, I will need someone to replace me. [RED: Come live as a sky princess, in my sky castle, and learn my magic. In return, I will grant your wish.] So the tiger-girl agreed, and the sky god, oh so generous, gave her one last day with her daughter.

CH 22 Q5 | What did the tiger-girl’s last tear become?
정답: A pearl
evidence: Her daughter would never be lost and lonely in her secrets. [RED: Before she left, the tiger-girl hugged her baby goodbye and cried and cried, and when the last tear fell from her eye, it turned into a pearl—a final goodbye, a pendant for her daughter to wear, right above her heartbone.] Goodbye, she whispered, and be safe.

CH 22 Q6 | 호랑이가 다음 만남에 가져오라고 한 것은?
정답: 별 항아리와 떡
evidence: She shrugs, trying to look casual, but her muscles are tense as they ripple beneath her fur. [RED: “Anyway, bring me the next star jar tomorrow, at two a.m., and I will tell you another story. Oh, and bring some rice cakes, too. It’s the least you can do, if we must meet in this stuffy basement.”] “Wait,” I say, “what consequences?

CH 23 Q1 | 릴리가 이날 하고 싶어 한 일은?
정답: 떡을 만드는 것
evidence: [RED: The next afternoon, I announce, “I need to make rice cakes.”] When I walk downstairs, Mom and Halmoni are sitting together at the dining table, and I join them, plopping myself into a chair.

CH 23 Q2 | Who suggests going to the Asian restaurant?
정답: Sam
evidence: But that only makes me want to bake now, before she needs to rest again. [RED: Sam shrugs. “Can we go to lunch at that Asian restaurant, on the corner of Willow and Vine?”] I turn to give Sam the stink-eye.

CH 23 Q3 | 그 식당에 대해 엄마가 한 말은?
정답: 제대로 된 곳이 아니다
evidence: “I’m in the mood,” Sam says. “That place is just a little…” [RED: Mom makes a face like she’s smelling rotten garlic but trying to be polite about it. “Well, it’s not authentic.”] “Yeah,” I chime in.

CH 23 Q4 | 식당 안내대 위에 걸려 릴리의 눈길을 붙든 것은?
정답: 웃는 것 같은 한국 호랑이 그림
evidence: Hello! [RED: But I’m fixated on the painting right above the hostess stand. It’s a classic Korean painting of a tiger, with eyes as big and round as rice cakes. It looks like it’s laughing.] Suddenly I feel sweaty.

CH 23 Q5 | 할머니가 아빠에게 몰래 먹였다는 것은?
정답: 흙을 섞은 밀크셰이크
evidence: “It was horrible.” [RED: “I make a milkshake for him,” Halmoni says. “A milkshake with little bit mud mixed in. But he take you mom away. That is bad. Little bit mud? Not that bad.”] Sam raises an eyebrow at me like, Can you believe?

CH 23 Q6 | Why did Halmoni say she fed him mud?
정답: To make him think before speaking
evidence: Like telling stories about Dad is something fun, instead of something terrible. [RED: “Mud good for him,” Halmoni says. Her eyes are happy and sad at the same time, in the missing-him way. “He always talking story—so much talking, but no thinking, aii-yah. Mud help to keep him grounded, think before he speak.”] Mom snorts.

CH 23 Q7 | 식당에서 할머니가 갑자기 한 행동은?
정답: 옆 테이블 손님의 접시를 가져왔다
evidence: If Halmoni is seeing things that aren’t there—if she’s not here—then it’s almost like she’s not really Halmoni anymore. [RED: She stands and walks over to the table next to us, singing a Korean lullaby as she picks up the man’s plate. He sets his chopsticks on the table, making a startled sound.] Mom jumps up.

CH 23 Q8 | 릴리에게 사탕을 쥐여 준 종업원이 한 말은?
정답: 자기 할아버지도 알츠하이머를 앓았다
evidence: “Okay.” [RED: “It’s not enough,” she says softly, “but my grandpa had Alzheimer’s. And I know how hard it is. He was always forgetting where he was, and who we were, and…I’m just really sorry it’s happening to you.”] I want to tell her this isn’t the same thing.

CH 24 Q1 | 엄마가 알려 준, 할머니에게 남은 시간은?
정답: 몇 달, 어쩌면 일주일
evidence: I stay very still so I don’t wake her. [RED: Mom takes a breath. “At Halmoni’s last doctor’s appointment, the prognosis wasn’t good. She could have a couple of months, or maybe just a week. But that’s why I want to make the most of the good days. We just don’t know.”] Mom’s words hang in the air for a few seconds, sucking up the oxygen.

CH 24 Q2 | Why won’t Mom force Halmoni to take the treatments?
정답: It is Halmoni’s choice.
evidence: Can’t you just make her do them?” [RED: Mom grips the steering wheel tighter. “We have to respect Halmoni. This is her choice, not ours.”] “Yeah, but if there’s something we can do and you’re not doing it, you’re basically killing her.”

CH 24 Q3 | "신을 믿지 않으면요?"라는 샘의 물음에 엄마가 한 답은?
정답: 모르겠다
evidence: Outside, the world goes green, gray, green, gray, and I look for the tiger, but she’s not there. [RED: For once, Sam’s words are soft. “What if I don’t believe in God?” Silence rings in my ears, and then Mom says something that moms are never supposed to say. “I don’t know.”] I scoot closer to Halmoni and curl my fingers into hers.

CH 24 Q4 | 오늘 떡을 만들자는 릴리에게 엄마가 한 말은?
정답: 집을 조용히 해야 하니 내일 하자
evidence: Mom steps back, unsure what to do about my sudden fierceness. [RED: “Tomorrow, all right? I promise. I just don’t want to do anything noisy or distracting for Halmoni. We need to keep the house quiet today, and we can’t do anything that might upset her.”] I don’t understand how making rice cakes would upset Halmoni, but Mom won’t budge.

CH 25 Q1 | What does Ricky’s family own?
정답: The paper mill
evidence: His dad’s a few years younger than me, so we went to high school at the same time but we weren’t really friends. [RED: His family owns the paper mill, though, where most of the business in town is. So everyone knew of them.]” I know it shouldn’t matter, but it still takes me a second to adjust: Ricky’s rich.

CH 25 Q2 | 리키네 집 진입로에서 릴리가 신기해한 것은?
정답: 토끼와 고양이 모양으로 다듬은 덤불
evidence: I’m not sure how that changes my perception of him, but I feel like it does, just a little bit. [RED: Our car putters into the long driveway, past bushes shaped like rabbits and cats. I’ve never seen anything like that, and I’m fascinated. They reshaped nature, just because they wanted to.] “This is…a lot,” Mom murmurs.

CH 25 Q3 | 리키네 집 초인종의 특이한 점은?
정답: 클래식 음악이 흘러나온다
evidence: We walk up to the front door and ring the doorbell. [RED: Instead of chiming, this doorbell starts playing classical music. “I didn’t know they could do that,” I whisper to Mom. She fights back a smile. “I think it’s Bach.”] Ricky’s dad answers the door.

CH 25 Q4 | 리키 아버지가 엄마를 옛 이름으로 부르자 엄마가 한 말은?
정답: 지금은 리브스라고 바로잡았다
evidence: “Nice to meet you,” I say in my extra-polite voice. [RED: “And Joan Ku!” He opens the door wider, inviting us in. “Long time no see!” “It’s Reeves now,” Mom says. She grimace-smiles and hunches her shoulders, which is weird for her. Here she seems small.] We step inside, and—no surprise—the living room is just as grand as the outside of the house.

CH 25 Q5 | Why does the rice cake filling go wrong?
정답: They use grape jelly instead of bean paste.
evidence: It’s too lumpy and too runny at the same time, and it doesn’t smell like Halmoni’s. [RED: On top of that, Ricky doesn’t have adzuki bean paste for the filling, so we improvise with grape jelly, and by the time the rice cakes are ready to go into the oven, they look completely and totally wrong.] Which makes me feel completely and totally wrong.

CH 25 Q6 | 떡을 버리려는 릴리에게 리키가 한 말은?
정답: 완벽하지 않아도 좋을 수 있다
evidence: You just want someone to know it’s happening. After a maybe-too-long silence, he says, [RED: “My mom never used a recipe when she cooked. It turned out different every time. So we can still try these, if you want. Even if things aren’t perfect, they can still be good.”] I take a breath.

CH 25 Q7 | 릴리가 리키에게 시험공부를 더 하라고 한 이유는?
정답: 같은 학년이 되어 함께 지내고 싶어서
evidence: I don’t realize how mean that sounds until I see his face fall, but that’s not how I meant it. [RED: “Because I know you can pass it,” I explain. “You seem really smart. And you’re going into seventh grade, right? So if you pass it, we’ll be in the same grade. And we can be in middle school together.”] As I say it, it strikes me how much I want that.
