CH 26 Q1 | 릴리가 새벽 두 시에 알람을 맞춰 둔 이유는?
정답: 호랑이를 만나러 가려고
evidence: [RED: I slam my phone alarm off as soon as it beeps me awake, and I slip out of bed, eager to meet with the tiger. I grab the tall, thin jar and the plate of rice cakes from under my bed] and pad over to the stairs—but a rustling in the corner of the room stops me. I spin around to see Sam fiddling with something by the window.

CH 26 Q2 | What is Sam doing with the rope?
정답: Tying it to her bed to climb out the window
evidence: There’s something weird in her voice, something wobbly and uncertain. I walk over to her, and when I’m close enough, [RED: I realize she’s tying a rope to her bed frame. And not just any rope—but the rope Ricky and I used on the tiger trap.] “Where did you get that?”

CH 26 Q3 | 샘이 몰래 나가는 이유로 댄 것은?
정답: 이 집이 숨 막혀서
evidence: I whisper. [RED: Sam shrugs. “I’m sneaking out,” she says, like, obviously. “This house is suffocating.”] I stare at her.

CH 26 Q4 | 두 자매가 헤어지며 나눈 것은?
정답: 새끼손가락을 걸었다
evidence: “Promise you’ll be okay?” [RED: “I’ll be fine. I’ll be back before morning.” Her eyes soften. “And you, too?” I extend my pinky. A pinky promise.] Long, long ago, a little sister cried.

CH 27 Q1 | 이야기 속 손녀가 할머니에게 이야기 대신 청한 것은?
정답: 노래를 불러 달라고
evidence: The stories felt like darkness, the kind that hid under her bed and lurked beneath the stairs. [RED: No, Halmoni, she said. Tell me later. Sing to me instead.] Sighing, the halmoni would put the stories away and sing.

CH 27 Q2 | What did the granddaughter’s hair reveal in the moonlight?
정답: A bright white stripe
evidence: I should have told you sooner, the stories you need to know. [RED: The granddaughter twisted, trying to escape, and when she did, her black hair caught in the moonlight, which lit up a stripe of bright white.] The girl was transforming before her halmoni’s eyes—half human, half tiger.

CH 27 Q3 | 손녀가 변해 가자 할머니가 한 말은?
정답: 맞서 싸워라
evidence: The girl was transforming before her halmoni’s eyes—half human, half tiger. [RED: Dark magic. Her granddaughter was cursed, the same way her daughter had been cursed. Fight it, Halmoni said. But the girl could not. Still she transformed.] She felt trapped in her own skin.

CH 27 Q4 | 손녀가 떠난 뒤 할머니가 보름달마다 한 일은?
정답: 항아리에 마음을 담아 바다로 띄웠다
evidence: Tiger or not. [RED: So every full moon, she took a storage jar from her shelf and whispered her heart into it. She filled the jars with love. A new kind of magic.] She didn’t know where the girl had gone, but every full moon, she sent a jar into the sea, hoping the ocean would carry it off across the world.

CH 27 Q5 | What does the tiger say about a cure?
정답: It is about what we need, not what we want.
evidence: “How is this story going to cure my halmoni?” [RED: “A cure is not about what we want. It’s about what we need. The same is true for stories.”] I have this strange feeling of fullness, like I’m going to burst.

CH 27 Q6 | 이야기 속 손녀는 끝내 어떻게 되었느냐는 물음에 호랑이가 한 답은?
정답: 떠났다
evidence: Or maybe he was not as powerful as he claimed to be—maybe he couldn’t control her heart.” [RED: I stare at the tiger. “But what happened to the granddaughter in the end?” The tiger lowers her head. “She left.”] “Did she ever find her way home?”

CH 28 Q1 | 한밤중 부엌에서 엄마가 냉장고에서 꺼낸 것은?
정답: 김치통
evidence: “Um,” I say. [RED: Mom scans the food as she blinks herself awake, and pulls out Halmoni’s plastic tub of kimchi. “Sound good?” she asks, holding it up.] I nod, not trusting myself to say anything.

CH 28 Q2 | Why does Lily stare at her mother in the kitchen?
정답: Mom is breaking her own rules.
evidence: When she holds the tub out to me, I stare at my mother. [RED: Any moment now, she’ll wake up and realize she was sleepwalking. And sleep-eating. And sleep-rule-breaking. Mom laughs. “Lily. Stop looking at me like I have three heads.”] “It’s just…”

CH 28 Q3 | 엄마가 릴리에게 사과하며 한 말은?
정답: 할 수만 있다면 세상을 막아 주고 싶다
evidence: Mom wraps her arm around me, pulling me closer. [RED: “I’m sorry, Lily,” she whispers, into my ear. “I’d hold back the world if I could. I’d take away all your pain. But you’ve already faced such hard things. I’m sorry I couldn’t protect you.”] I bite my cheek.

CH 28 Q4 | 조리대 위의 별 항아리를 본 엄마의 반응은?
정답: 어디서 본 것 같다고 했다
evidence: “Um…just in Halmoni’s old stuff.” [RED: “Huh. It looks familiar.” Mom frowns, just slightly. I catch a hint of recognition on her face, but it flits away. “Ah, I’m sure I just saw it around when I was a kid.”] She slides off the counter and screws the lid back onto the kimchi.

CH 29 Q1 | 아침에 계단에 흩어져 있던 것은?
정답: 생쌀
evidence: I head down the stairs, but after a few steps, something sharp digs into my bare feet. [RED: I lift my foot and realize it’s rice—uncooked grains, scattered across the steps. Which is weird.] I brush them off, but I don’t have much time to think about it, because when I go downstairs, I see that Halmoni has cooked enough Korean food to fill the entire kitchen.

CH 29 Q2 | What is Halmoni doing when Lily comes downstairs?
정답: Cooking a huge amount of food
evidence: Which is weird. [RED: I brush them off, but I don’t have much time to think about it, because when I go downstairs, I see that Halmoni has cooked enough Korean food to fill the entire kitchen.] Sam helps Halmoni, humming to herself as she carries the finished dishes to the table, and seeing my sister fills me with relief.

CH 29 Q3 | 할머니가 릴리 목의 목걸이를 보고 한 말은?
정답: 자기 것인데 준 적이 없다
evidence: You gave it to me.” [RED: “No, that mine. Someone give me that, long, long ago. I remember.” She shakes her head. “But I don’t give you that. Why you saying that?”] I don’t know how to respond, but Sam interrupts.

CH 29 Q4 | 할머니가 샘의 흰 머리를 만지며 한 말은?
정답: 고향에 있을 때 자기도 그랬다
evidence: Halmoni turns and walks to Sam. [RED: When she reaches my sister, Halmoni runs her fingers over Sam’s white streak. “This like me, when I back at home. So long ago. So long, I try to forget.”] My limbs go cold.

CH 29 Q5 | What does Halmoni call Lily when she looks into her eyes?
정답: A tiger
evidence: It’s like she’s seeing a different world. [RED: But when Halmoni looks into my eyes, she recoils. “A tiger,” she hisses.] I step back.

CH 29 Q6 | 이 장에서 릴리를 가장 무너뜨린 사실은?
정답: 할머니가 자기를 알아보지 못한다
evidence: And I realize: she can’t remember. [RED: And it’s not just that, but there’s something worse, too—a flash of panic behind her eyes. It’s not that she can’t remember my name. It’s that she can’t remember me.] She doesn’t know me.

CH 30 Q1 | 도서관에 들어선 두 자매가 느낀 것은?
정답: 음악과 웃음소리로 분위기가 달라져 있었다
evidence: [RED: Sam and I reach the library, and when we open the doors, I hear music. And laughter. The change of atmosphere is disorienting.] On one side of the library, Jensen crowds around her laptop with a girl and a boy who both look about her age, and on the other—Ricky sits with his back to me, at a table with two other boys.

CH 30 Q2 | Why did Joe become a librarian?
정답: He likes order and the decimal system.
evidence: I wait for him to tell me, because of course I don’t. [RED: “Dewey,” he says. “As in the decimal system.” I’m not sure if he’s joking or not, but he continues, “I like order. I like organization. The idea of all the information in the world, all organized, everything in its place—I like that idea.”] He clears his throat.

CH 30 Q3 | 조가 이야기를 무엇에 빗대었나요?
정답: 물
evidence: “But I’ve been doing this job for a long time. [RED: And the thing I’ve learned is that stories aren’t about order and organization. They’re about feelings. And feelings don’t always make sense. See, stories are like…” He pauses, brow furrowing, then nods, satisfied in finding the right comparison: “Water. Like rain. We can hold them tight, but they always slip through our fingers.”] I try to hide my shock.

CH 30 Q4 | "어디서 왔니?"라는 애덤의 물음에 릴리가 한 대답은?
정답: 길 건너에서요
evidence: He looks familiar, though I’m not sure why. [RED: “So, Lily, where are you from?” My brain goes blank for a second. Then I say, “I’m from across the street.”] For some reason, I feel like that wasn’t the answer he was looking for, but he gives me half a nod—a quick jerk of his chin.

CH 30 Q5 | 코너가 릴리의 할머니를 뭐라고 불렀나요?
정답: 미친 마녀 아줌마
evidence: “She’s my grandma.” [RED: Connor’s eyebrows go high. “The crazy witch lady is your grandma?”] I want to tell him, Crazy is not a thinking word.

CH 30 Q6 | What does Ricky tell the other boys about Halmoni?
정답: That she is sick and has hallucinations
evidence: Who knits scarves instead of mixing strange Korean herbs. [RED: Ricky finally speaks, mouth still full. “Guys, Lily’s grandma’s not scary. It’s not her fault she’s like that. She’s sick, so she has hallucinations that make her act that way, like scared of ghosts and tigers and stuff, right, Lily?”] The ground becomes a black hole—a tiger’s mouth, jaws open wide—and I’m falling in, swallowed whole.

CH 30 Q7 | 리키의 말에서 릴리가 가장 아팠던 점은?
정답: 할머니의 모든 것이 병 탓처럼 들려서
evidence: But that’s not even the worst part. [RED: The worst part is that when I heard Ricky say that, it felt like the sickness is all that Halmoni is. Like the sickness is the reason for how she is.] But Halmoni isn’t like that because she’s sick.
