CH 31 Q1 | 릴리가 푸딩 컵 안에 넣은 것은?
정답: 흙
evidence: The ground is soft and slimy and, if you think about it, looks a lot like pudding. [RED: I pull the foil lid off the cup, carefully and only slightly, so you couldn’t tell the cup had been opened unless you were looking really hard. Then I dump some of the pudding onto the ground and scoop mud inside.] Halmoni fed Dad mud because he spoke too much without thinking.

CH 31 Q2 | What does the tiger say the library is?
정답: Her favorite place
evidence: I ask, rubbing raindrops from my eyes. [RED: “What, a tiger can’t enjoy the library? It happens to be my favorite place.”] I stare at her.

CH 31 Q3 | 할머니가 목걸이와 흰 머리를 잊었다는 말에 호랑이가 한 대꾸는?
정답: 잊은 것이냐, 기억한 것이냐
evidence: I lower the pudding and let rain run into my mouth as I say, “Halmoni forgot about the pendant and Sam’s white streak today.” [RED: “Was she forgetting or remembering?” I glare at her, sick of riddles.] “You must reach the end—”

CH 31 Q4 | 릴리가 "저리 가"라고 하자 호랑이가 한 말은?
정답: 네 뜻대로
evidence: I make things better, and I don’t trick people, making them wait for the end while bad things happen. [RED: “I’m not a monster,” I tell her. “Leave me alone.” She tsks, a sharp sound that scrapes against her teeth. “As you wish.” And then, in a flash, she’s gone.] I am alone again, in the rain, with only the pudding cup clutched to my chest.

CH 31 Q5 | What does Ricky say after Lily admits what she did?
정답: You cursed me.
evidence: “Mud isn’t that bad.” [RED: They blink in shock, and Ricky looks at me with a mixture of fear and awe. “You cursed me,” he whispers.] And I can’t deal anymore.

CH 32 Q1 | 릴리가 한 일을 엄마에게 말해 버린 사람은?
정답: 샘
evidence: I say, “Nothing.” [RED: But Sam says, “Lily put mud in that kid’s pudding.” “Sam!” I hiss as the betrayal whips through me. Sisters keep secrets.] Sisters keep each other’s secrets.

CH 32 Q2 | What job is Mom offered?
정답: An accounting job at Everett Mills
evidence: “What?” [RED: “His dad…” She sighs. “We were talking about how I’m looking for work, and he called to offer me an accounting position at Everett Mills. It’s just…it was such a relief to get a job, and—well, that’s not the point.”] I feel bad now.

CH 32 Q3 | 릴리가 흙을 넣은 이유로 든 것은?
정답: 아이들이 할머니를 마녀라고 놀려서
evidence: Not even tigers. [RED: “But, Mom, he was being mean about Halmoni! You didn’t hear him. He and his friends called her a witch. They said she was crazy and scary. That was bad. Mud is not that bad.”] Mom pulls me over to the kitchen table to sit with her.

CH 32 Q4 | 엄마가 릴리에게 한 충고는?
정답: 할머니를 이해 못 하는 사람보다 할머니에게 힘을 쓰라
evidence: And it’s hard—especially now. [RED: But Halmoni doesn’t need you putting mud in people’s pudding for her. She needs you to be there, to focus on her. And when you do something like this, you’re spending more energy on the people who don’t understand Halmoni than on Halmoni herself.”] In the moment, I felt like I was doing the right thing.

CH 32 Q5 | What was Mom’s role when she was a little girl?
정답: She was Halmoni’s assistant and translator.
evidence: She’d find things that people needed help with, and she’d figure out how to do it. [RED: “And I wanted to help her. It’s how we spent time together. I was her little assistant, trailing after her, translating, writing everything in English.]” I can’t imagine Mom following Halmoni around like that.

CH 32 Q6 | 엄마가 할머니와 멀어진 이유로 말한 것은?
정답: 특별한 일은 없었고 그냥 자랐다
evidence: I’m afraid of what comes next. [RED: But Mom shakes her head. “There’s nothing bad, Lily. Nothing magical or interesting, not like her fairy tales. It was just…real life. I grew up.”] I don’t want to be like that when I get older.

CH 33 Q1 | 사과하는 샘에게 릴리가 한 행동은?
정답: 아무 대답도 하지 않았다
evidence: Long, long ago, when tiger walked like man, there were two sisters…. [RED: Sam exhales sharply. “You’re really gonna give me the silent treatment?”] The two sisters loved each other, more than anything.

CH 33 Q2 | What does Sam say she wants?
정답: For it to be over already
evidence: She takes a breath. [RED: “But whatever. I just want it to end. I want it to be over already.”] Her words chill the room by ten thousand degrees.

CH 33 Q3 | 그 말을 들은 릴리가 다급히 시킨 것은?
정답: 취소하고 나무를 두드리라
evidence: Her words chill the room by ten thousand degrees. [RED: My heart stammers, and I push the covers back. “Take it back,” I say. “Knock on wood.” Her voice is ragged, broken glass. “I don’t believe in that stuff anymore.”] “But you have to.

CH 33 Q4 | 그날 밤 지하실에 내려간 릴리가 마주한 것은?
정답: 호랑이가 없는 빈 방
evidence: Sam might not believe, but I do. [RED: I push the basement door open, but when I creak down the steps, I find only an empty room. The tiger isn’t there.] It’s just a dusty basement with a bunch of old boxes, lit by a thin strip of window.

CH 34 Q1 | 차 안에서 엄마가 쑥에 대해 설명한 것은?
정답: 메스꺼움에 쓰는 약초인데 생생한 꿈을 꾸게 한다는 말이 있다
evidence: The tone of her voice is a warning, but I say, “Yes.” [RED: “That’s an herbal remedy that Halmoni’s been taking. It helps with her nausea, but some people think it causes vivid dreams and nightmares. None of it’s evidence based, of course, and it’s not dangerous. But you don’t need any more stress.”] “Oh.”

CH 34 Q2 | What does Lily say to Ricky’s dad at the door?
정답: That he should not blame her mom
evidence: Especially when it’s wrong because of you. [RED: “Don’t blame my mom,” I tell him. “She’s a very good worker and doesn’t do…strange things.”] Mom looks like she can’t decide if she wants to hug me or hide behind the rabbit bush.

CH 34 Q3 | 릴리의 말에 리키 아버지가 한 대꾸는?
정답: 이상한 아이를 둔 심정을 안다
evidence: Mom looks like she can’t decide if she wants to hug me or hide behind the rabbit bush. [RED: Ricky’s dad almost smiles. “I recognize that. I know what it’s like to have a strange child.”] I’m not sure how to respond to that, but I’ll take it as a win.

CH 34 Q4 | 사과하러 만난 날 리키가 쓰고 있던 모자는?
정답: 아무 무늬 없는 검정 야구모자
evidence: The phrase Take your friend to the den has a bit of a murder vibe to it, but when Ricky shows up, he looks sheepish. [RED: He’s wearing a plain black baseball cap. It’s the most normal I’ve ever seen him.] He gives me an uncertain wave and then leads me into the blue-themed living room.

CH 34 Q5 | How does Ricky mispronounce “halmoni”?
정답: Harmony
evidence: “I’m sorry about the mud.” [RED: Ricky exhales. “I’m sorry, too. About the stuff we said about your grandma. I mean, your harmony.” I blink at him, confused.] “I want you to feel more comfortable, so I’m using the Korean word,” he explains.

CH 34 Q6 | 리키의 친구들이 릴리를 뭐라고 부르게 되었나요?
정답: Witch Girl
evidence: “Do your friends hate me?” [RED: He laughs. “They think you’re supercool. They kept referring to you as Witch Girl. But not in a bad way. Anyone who does something like that is probably worth knowing.”] I sneak a glance at him.

CH 34 Q7 | 리키가 털어놓은 자기 엄마의 소식은?
정답: 작년에 집을 떠나 연락이 없다
evidence: Is she…” [RED: “She’s not dead. She left. Last year. And we haven’t heard from her since.”] I wonder if, somehow, that makes it worse.

CH 34 Q8 | Why does Ricky think his mom left?
정답: He no longer needed her help with school.
evidence: Ricky continues, “But I think, like, maybe if I did more to make her want to stay, she would have. [RED: She was a stay-at-home mom, and she always helped me with homework and stuff. Except these past couple of years, I started getting better at school, so I didn’t really need help, and we didn’t hang out as much, and maybe she thought I was fine without her.]” “Oh.

CH 34 Q9 | 리키가 알려 준, 증조할아버지가 호랑이를 사냥하던 곳은?
정답: 시베리아
evidence: Because, no offense, but it’s pretty unlikely that a tiger would just…wander into your basement. [RED: Like, my great-grandfather used to go on these big hunting expeditions in the wilderness of Siberia, because that’s where tigers like to be.]” I nod, thinking.

CH 35 Q1 | "나를 닮았다"는 말에 할머니가 덧붙인 것은?
정답: 내 삶은 따라 할 만한 것이 아니다
evidence: “But I want to be like you.” [RED: She balls the toilet paper up in her rice-paper hands. “Halmoni make mistakes sometime. My life not good to follow. Your life better.”] “But—”

CH 35 Q2 | Why did Halmoni hide the sad stories?
정답: She did not want to pass on bad feelings.
evidence: Long, long ago, Japan and United States people do wrong things to our country. [RED: But I don’t want to give you sad, angry stories. I don’t want to pass you those bad feelings.”] Listening to her talk, I realize there is so much of the world that I don’t know.

CH 35 Q3 | 할머니에게 릴리가 반박한 말은?
정답: 숨긴다고 지난 일이 없어지지 않는다
evidence: I’ve never thought she was wrong before. [RED: “But, Halmoni, maybe keeping those stories secret is the bad thing. Because all those things still happened, even if you don’t talk about it. And hiding it doesn’t erase the past—it only bottles it up.”] She rubs my shoulder.

CH 35 Q4 | 별 항아리를 어디서 얻었다고 할머니가 말했나요?
정답: 바닷가 벼룩시장에서 샀다
evidence: “Yes, yes. [RED: Flea market. One by the coast.]” “No,” I say, holding the star jar closer to her face, like I can force her to remember.

CH 35 Q5 | What does Halmoni say the jars are?
정답: Just jars
evidence: That’s why you were so nervous about moving the boxes…because the jars are magic.” [RED: “Everything a little bit magic,” Halmoni says, slowly. “But those just jars.”] I shake my head.

CH 35 Q6 | 살려 드리겠다는 릴리에게 할머니가 한 말은?
정답: 구해 줄 필요 없다, 이제 내 때다
evidence: “Aii-yah.” [RED: She takes my hand in hers, rubbing my life line, like she always does. “Lily Bean, I don’t need saving. I not scare anymore.”] “But this will work.
