CH 41 Q1 | Who does Halmoni ask to speak to first at the hospital?
정답: Sam
evidence: And I’m not ready. [RED: I take a step backward, but Halmoni opens her eyes and sees us. “Sam,” she says. Her voice is small. “I talk to Sam first.” Sam’s voice is a squeak. “Me? Really?”] Halmoni nods weakly, and Sam rushes to her side.

CH 41 Q2 | 릴리가 호랑이에게 털어놓은 두 마음은?
정답: 더 살기를 바라면서도 더 아프지 않기를 바라는 마음
evidence: I get that filled-up, bursting feeling again. And then I say, [RED: “I want Halmoni to live longer, but I also don’t want her to hurt longer.] “And I want—” My voice cracks, and I don’t think I can keep going, but I do.

CH 41 Q3 | 호랑이가 말한 "치유"의 뜻은?
정답: 병을 고치는 것이 아니라 이해하는 것
evidence: I can’t face it.” [RED: “Lily, I told you I would heal my Ae-Cha, but healing is not always about curing illness. Often, it is about understanding. And when you face your whole story, you can understand your whole heart.”] My whole heart hurts.

CH 41 Q4 | What does the tiger say about the last story?
정답: It is not gone; Lily released it.
evidence: The final story is gone, and now Halmoni won’t even have that.” [RED: “It’s not gone,” she says. “You released it. And I cannot tell it to you, but you know more than you realize. These are the stories of our family, after all.”] I pause, turning her words over.

CH 41 Q5 | 릴리가 호랑이의 정체에 대해 짐작한 것은?
정답: 할머니의 어머니
evidence: These are the stories of our family, after all.” [RED: I pause, turning her words over. My Ae-Cha. Our family. My family, and hers. “Are you…Halmoni’s mom? Am I…?” I don’t say a tiger-girl, because I don’t have to. I already know.] She doesn’t answer my questions.

CH 42 Q1 | 할머니가 병실에서 보고 있다고 말한 사람은?
정답: 자기 어머니
evidence: But I grab her hand, and those feelings don’t disappear, and I realize there’s love there, too, and that’s stronger than anything else. [RED: “I am seeing the truth,” Halmoni says. “I see my mother. My umma. She finally find me.”] “Halmoni,” I whisper, “I think I saw her, too.”

CH 42 Q2 | What does Halmoni say she spent her whole life doing?
정답: Hiding her heart
evidence: My chest hurts, but I squeeze her hand, tracing her life line with my thumb. [RED: “All my life, I spend so much time, so much energy, hiding my heart. I am scare of tigers. But more, I am scare of the tiger in me,” she says.] “I thought I have to hide my words, because my English not so good.

CH 42 Q3 | 할머니가 말한 가장 강한 일은?
정답: 도망치기를 그만두는 것
evidence: “I’m not.” [RED: She closes her eyes. “Sometime, the strongest thing is to stop running. To say, I am not afraid of tigers. I am not afraid to die.”] But I’m so afraid.

CH 42 Q4 | 할머니가 마지막으로 청한 것은?
정답: 이야기를 들려 달라
evidence: Mom walks over and rubs my back. [RED: With her eyes still closed and her lips lifted into the smallest smile, Halmoni says, whisper-fierce, “Tell me a story.”] Sam looks at me and reaches up with one hand.

CH 43 Q1 | 릴리가 지어낸 이야기에서 할머니가 사러 간 것은?
정답: 쌀과 Happy Nut 크래커
evidence: Once, they’d shared everything, but over time, they’d grown apart—grown alone. [RED: One day, the halmoni went to the village to buy rice and Happy Nut crackers for her girls, but she got trapped in traffic.] She got home late, much later than usual.

CH 43 Q2 | In Lily’s story, what did the sisters do to try to change Halmoni back?
정답: They scattered rice and spilled the stars.
evidence: They didn’t know what to do. [RED: So they tried to change her back. Unya scattered the rice, and Eggi spilled the stars. They tried everything, but nothing worked.] Finally, when there was nothing left but the end of the story.

CH 43 Q3 | 릴리의 이야기에서 옛 하늘님이 저지른 진짜 실수는?
정답: 호랑이 소녀에게 하나만 고르게 한 것
evidence: See, centuries before, a different sky god had created a tiger-girl who walked both worlds. [RED: Even the gods make mistakes, but as it turned out, the mistake hadn’t been the tiger-girl at all. The mistake was making her choose.] The mistake was creating a world where she had to hide—where she was afraid to be everything at once, fierce and kind, soft and strong.

CH 43 Q4 | 하늘 호랑이가 자매에게 남긴 말은?
정답: 빛은 한정되어 있지 않다
evidence: Women who could be everything and anything. [RED: Now you can tell your own star stories, the sky tiger told them, her voice skritching like coarse fabric against their ears. Light is not limited.] So the sisters began to speak.

CH 44 Q1 | What does Mom say the stories did for Halmoni?
정답: They reminded her that the world is big.
evidence: “The stories were supposed to save her,” I say in a small voice. [RED: Mom makes a noise, and when I look at her, there are tears in her eyes. “They did save her, Lily. They reminded her that the world is big. That she could be anything. That she was everything to us.”] Halmoni looks so pale, lying on the bed.

CH 44 Q2 | 릴리가 할머니 귀에 대고 한 말은?
정답: 가셔도 괜찮아요, 우리는 괜찮을 거예요
evidence: Together we hold our little piece of magic—our piece of Halmoni. [RED: “It’s okay,” I whisper, leaning so close to Halmoni that my lips brush her ear. I close my eyes and breathe. Sometimes, the bravest thing is to stop running. “It’s okay if you go. We will be all right.”] I don’t know, for sure, if she hears me.

CH 44 Q3 | 창밖에서 릴리가 본 두 점의 빛에 대한 설명으로 맞는 것은?
정답: 기계의 반사일 수도, 호랑이의 눈일 수도 있다
evidence: The room seems to sigh in relief. [RED: I look up, and the world outside is dark, but through the window, two small spots of light blink back at me. It’s hard to see. It’s hard to know for sure. It could be the reflection of the machines inside, or it could be tiger eyes, staring back at me.] I watch them, my heart clenching tight like a little fist.

CH 45 Q1 | 집으로 돌아온 뒤 지하실은 어떤 상태였나요?
정답: 물이 차 있었다
evidence: [RED: The basement is flooded. The first night, after we return to Halmoni’s house, Mom throws the basement door open and shakes her head. Water laps at the steps.] The boxes that Ricky and I worked so hard to stack slowly disintegrate into mush.

CH 45 Q2 | What does Ricky text on the seventh night?
정답: rice cakes
evidence: The hours go blurry. [RED: Ricky texts me a continuous stream of his favorite foods, trying to cheer me up. And on the seventh night, after one official week, he texts: rice cakes.] When I read the words, the threat of tears burns behind my eyes.

CH 45 Q3 | 릴리가 베이크 세일을 두고 떠올린 생각은?
정답: 고사처럼 치르자
evidence: Sam says, “We don’t have to do the bake sale.” [RED: “We don’t have to,” I say, looking between her and Mom. “But…maybe we should. All that food. All those people. It’ll be like…” Understanding settles on Sam’s face, and her eyes ache with grief. “Like a kosa.”] “At the library,” Mom says.

CH 45 Q4 | 도서관을 알록달록하게 칠하고 포스터를 붙였던 사람은?
정답: 할머니
evidence: For a moment, she looks too pained to speak, but she does. [RED: “The library was one of Halmoni’s projects, so many years ago. She painted it bright colors and added cheesy posters. She always wanted it to be a special place.”] I stare at her, wondering how, all this time, I never knew.
